now after these things in the reign of
artaxerxes king of persia
ezra the son of syria the son of Azariah
the son of Hilkiah the son of Shalem the
son of Zadok the son of a hated the son
of a mariah the son of Azariah the son
of Barea the son of Zahra hyah the son
of as I the son of buckeye the son of a
bee-sh you are the son of Phineas the
son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the
chief priests this Ezra came up from
Babylon and he was a skilled scribe in
the law of Moses which the Lord God of
Israel had given the King granted him
all his requests according to the hand
of the Lord his God upon him some of the
children of Israel the priests the
Levites the singers the gatekeepers and
the Nephilim came up to Jerusalem in the
seventh year of King Artaxerxes and Ezra
came to Jerusalem in the fifth month
which was in the seventh year of the
king on the first day of the first month
he began his journey from babbling and
on the first day of the fifth month he
came to Jerusalem according to the good
hand of his gold upon him for Ezra had
prepared his heart to seek the law of
the Lord and to do it and to teach
statutes and ordinances in Israel this
is a copy of the letter that king
artaxerxes gave Ezra the priest the
scribe expert in the words of the
commandments of the Lord and of his
statutes to Israel artaxerxes King of
Kings to Ezra the priest a scribe of the
law of God of heaven perfect peace and
so forth I issue a decree than all those
of the people of Israel and the priests
and levites in my realm who volunteered
to go up
Jerusalem may go with you and whereas
you were being sent by the king and his
seven councillors to inquire concerning
Judah and Jerusalem with regard to the
law of your God which is in your hand
and whereas you are to carry the silver
and gold which the king and his
counselors have freely offered to the
God of Israel was dwelling his in
Jerusalem and whereas all the silver and
gold that you may find in all the
province of Babylon along with the
freewill offering of the people and the
priests are to be freely offered for the
house of their God in Jerusalem
now therefore be careful to buy with
this money bulls Rams and lambs with
their grain offerings and their drink
offerings and offer them on the altar of
the house of your God in Jerusalem and
whatever seems good to you and your
brethren to do with the rest of the
silver and the gold do it according to
the will of your God also the articles
that are given to you for the service of
the house of your God deliver in full
before the God of Jerusalem and whatever
more may be needed for the house of your
God which you may have occasion to
provide pay for it from the Kings
Treasury and I even I artaxerxes the
king issue a decree to all the
treasurer's who are in the region beyond
the river that whatever Ezra the priest
the scribe of the law of the God of
heaven may require of you let it be done
diligently up to one hundred talents of
silver 100 cores of wheat
one hundred baths of wine one hundred
baths of oil and salt without prescribed
limit whatever is commanded by the God
of heaven let it diligently be done for
the house of the God of heaven for Why
should there be wrath against the realm
of the king and his sons also we inform
you that it shall not be lawful to
impose tax tribute or custom on any of
the priests Levites singers gatekeepers
nathan 'm or servants of this house of
god and you as rah according to your
god-given wisdom set magistrates and
judges who may judge all the people who
are in the region beyond the river all
such as know the laws of your God and
teach those who do not know them whoever
will not observe the law of your God and
the law of the King let judgment be
executed speedily on him whether it be
death or banishment or confiscation of
goods or imprisonment
[Music]
blessed be the Lord God of our fathers
who has put such a thing as this in the
king's heart to beautify the house of
the Lord which is in Jerusalem and has
extended mercy to me before the king and
his counselors and before all the Kings
mighty princes so I was encouraged as
the hand of the Lord my God was upon me
and I gathered leading men of Israel to
go up with me
[Music]
you